## Attempting to gain access to real ENCRYPTED disk via live USB Boot (Windows&Linux)

### Objectives:
- Demonstrate the successful decryption of a BitLocker volume using both native (Windows PE) and cross-platform (Linux) tools.
- Correct the "GUID Leak" hypothesis: Confirming the key wasn't leaked
- Highlight the difference between mitigating attacks that target Confidentiality/Integrity vs Availability

### Results
- Successful Decryption: The volume was successfully unlocked using Hiren’s BootCD PE (Native) and subsequently via Linux
- Hypothesis Correction: The GUID found in the metadata is a Resource Identifier, not the Recovery Key itself. It exists to help a user or system find the matching 48-digit key
- Vulnerability: While Confidentiality was maintained until the key was provided, Availability was never protected; an attacker could still wipe the partition table or re-encrypt the encrypted data
- **NOTE**: original disk was never truly decrypted instead a mapper (a kind of translator) was created essentially grabbing encrypted data into RAM and producing decrypted output upon request. A virtual block device under /dev/mapper was created signifying this translator

### Environment
- Target: Windows machine with BitLocker enabled (XTS-AES 128-bit).
- Attacker: Live Linux USB / Hiren’s BootCD PE (WinPE environment).

### Execution Steps:
Target Setup
1. ecnrypted disk via Bitlocker

Attacker Setup
1. Ventoy on USB (to be able to boot several OSs from one USB drive)
2. installed .iso images on USB drive (Hiren's Windows and Linux)

Decrypting via Hiren's
1. Booted the target machine into Hiren’s BootCD PE via Ventoy.
2. Used diskpart to identify the "BitLocker Encrypted" volume.
3. Opened cmd and executed 
```
manage-bde -unlock <your-disk> -RecoveryPassword 48-DIGIT-KEY
```
4. The drive immediately became accessible in File Explorer. CRUD operations were performed successfully.

Decrypting via Linux
1. Booted into Live Linux USB.
2. Identified partition via lsblk -f.
3. Created the decrypted mapper
```
sudo cryptsetup bitlkOpen <your-partition> win_vault
```
4. Provide 48-digit recovery key
5. No error occured here compared to last experiment confirming that tools are operational and the problem was with providing incoorect recovery key
6. Mount decrypted volume
```
sudo mount /dev/mapper/win_vault /mnt
```